COMPONENT_README_TEMPLATE.md, before:

# Component Name

## Overview

Brief description of the component and its purpose in the ServiceLib library.

## Features

- **Feature 1**: Description of feature 1
- **Feature 2**: Description of feature 2
- **Feature 3**: Description of feature 3
- **Feature 4**: Description of feature 4
- **Feature 5**: Description of feature 5

## Installation

```bash
go get github.com/abitofhelp/servicelib/component
```

## Quick Start

See the [Quick Start example](../EXAMPLES/component/quickstart_example.go) for a complete, runnable example of how to use the component.

## Configuration

See the [Configuration example](../EXAMPLES/component/configuration_example.go) for a complete, runnable example of how to configure the component.

## API Documentation

### Core Types

Description of the main types provided by the component.

#### Type 1

Description of Type 1 and its purpose.

See the [Type 1 example](../EXAMPLES/component/type1_example.go) for a complete, runnable example of how to use Type 1.

#### Type 2

Description of Type 2 and its purpose.

See the [Type 2 example](../EXAMPLES/component/type2_example.go) for a complete, runnable example of how to use Type 2.

### Key Methods

Description of the key methods provided by the component.

#### Method 1

Description of Method 1 and its purpose.

See the [Method 1 example](../EXAMPLES/component/method1_example.go) for a complete, runnable example of how to use Method 1.

#### Method 2

Description of Method 2 and its purpose.

See the [Method 2 example](../EXAMPLES/component/method2_example.go) for a complete, runnable example of how to use Method 2.

## Examples

For complete, runnable examples, see the following files in the EXAMPLES directory:

- [Basic Usage](../EXAMPLES/component/basic_usage_example.go) - Shows basic usage of the component
- [Advanced Configuration](../EXAMPLES/component/advanced_configuration_example.go) - Shows advanced configuration options
- [Error Handling](../EXAMPLES/component/error_handling_example.go) - Shows how to handle errors
- [Integration with Other Components](../EXAMPLES/component/integration_example.go) - Shows how to integrate with other components

## Best Practices

1. **Best Practice 1**: Description of best practice 1
2. **Best Practice 2**: Description of best practice 2
3. **Best Practice 3**: Description of best practice 3
4. **Best Practice 4**: Description of best practice 4
5. **Best Practice 5**: Description of best practice 5

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### Issue 1

Description of issue 1 and how to resolve it.

#### Issue 2

Description of issue 2 and how to resolve it.

## Related Components

- [Component 1](../component1/README.md) - Description of how this component relates to Component 1
- [Component 2](../component2/README.md) - Description of how this component relates to Component 2

## Contributing

Contributions to this component are welcome! Please see the [Contributing Guide](../CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](../LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Aligned readme.md files with associated templates.  Verified entire readme.md hierarchy for drilldown; all okay.

COMPONENT_README_TEMPLATE.md, after:

# Component Name

## Overview

Brief description of the component and its purpose in the ServiceLib library.

## Features

- **Feature 1**: Description of feature 1
- **Feature 2**: Description of feature 2
- **Feature 3**: Description of feature 3
- **Feature 4**: Description of feature 4
- **Feature 5**: Description of feature 5

## Installation

```bash
go get github.com/abitofhelp/servicelib/component
```

## Quick Start

See the [Quick Start example](../EXAMPLES/component/basic_usage/README.md) for a complete, runnable example of how to use the component.

## Configuration

See the [Configuration example](../EXAMPLES/component/custom_configuration/README.md) for a complete, runnable example of how to configure the component.

## API Documentation

### Core Types

Description of the main types provided by the component.

#### Type 1

Description of Type 1 and its purpose.

```
// Example code for Type1
type Type1 struct {
    // Fields
}
```

#### Type 2

Description of Type 2 and its purpose.

```
// Example code for Type2
type Type2 struct {
    // Fields
}
```

### Key Methods

Description of the key methods provided by the component.

#### Method 1

Description of Method 1 and its purpose.

```
// Example code for Method1
func Method1(param1 Type1) error
```

#### Method 2

Description of Method 2 and its purpose.

```
// Example code for Method2
func Method2(param1 Type1, param2 Type2) (Type2, error)
```

## Examples

For complete, runnable examples, see the following directories in the EXAMPLES directory:

- [Basic Usage](../EXAMPLES/component/basic_usage/README.md) - Shows basic usage of the component
- [Custom Configuration](../EXAMPLES/component/custom_configuration/README.md) - Shows how to configure the component
- [Advanced Usage](../EXAMPLES/component/advanced_usage/README.md) - Shows advanced usage of the component
- [Integration](../EXAMPLES/component/integration/README.md) - Shows how to integrate the component with other components

## Best Practices

1. **Best Practice 1**: Description of best practice 1
2. **Best Practice 2**: Description of best practice 2
3. **Best Practice 3**: Description of best practice 3
4. **Best Practice 4**: Description of best practice 4
5. **Best Practice 5**: Description of best practice 5

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### Issue 1

Description of issue 1 and how to resolve it.

#### Issue 2

Description of issue 2 and how to resolve it.

## Related Components

- [Component 1](../component1/README.md) - Description of how this component relates to Component 1
- [Component 2](../component2/README.md) - Description of how this component relates to Component 2

## Contributing

Contributions to this component are welcome! Please see the [Contributing Guide](../CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](../LICENSE) file for details.
